heading up the mountain past a teal the
road becomes much rougher hey everybody
I'm Stu Kagura from atomic TV and I'm on
vacation and they're selling Philippines
now I'm getting ready for my world toy
tour and you're gonna hear about that
soon but first I've got something kind
of serious to talk about now they had
while I was here they had a super
typhoon came through typhoon Bopha
typhoon it's like a hurricane for people
who live in the US this has been very
destructive well we're a thousand
casualties eighty thousand people
homeless said to be twice the
destructive power of hurricane sandy
what's happened in the US East Coast
last month I couldn't very well to sit
around the pool here and have a good
time while people are suffering nearby
so I'm going to mount my own relief
effort I've contracted with the truck
and we got loaded with rice and we're
gonna head up to an isolated mountain
community and try to help them out now
I've been said I've been told that in
the past there's been bandit activity
and rebels in these areas but also I've
been told that the roads are open
although they're pretty rough and
there's army troops up there who can
help me out so we're gonna go we're
gonna do it and you're gonna ride along
with me alright so let's go the morning
before our trip we buy rice in a local
market and uh bail each of these bags
costs $18
I think the loading boards are showing
off of it
camera
[Music]
so here's our relief mission truck and
we've got our sacks of rice on board and
they're covering it up for the night
we're going to leave early in the
morning but the fellows are covering the
rice up so that it doesn't get rained on
tonight it's probably going to rain well
this is a truck we're taking into the
mountains hopefully can get up there but
these two drivers seem like they're very
experienced so I think it's going to be
okay we leave Davao at 4 a.m. the next
morning normally these streets are
jammed off of the Buffalo traffic but
driving was easy now and we make good
time
there's a lot of lovely scenery in the
field
four green Belgians in
rivers
you'll see various convinces Filipinos
will write anything with
most of these are totally unsafe
getting closer we start to see the
damage for the typhoon
then massive tree damage most of the
trees here have been knocked down
approaching the town of katiyal we see
army troops and then in katiyal eight
out of ten homes we see are damaged or
gone entirely roofs are gone from the
school the church is the large market
that was recently built all gone now
[Music]
brick structures did well but it seems
anything made out of wood was totally
demolished by the typhoon
[Music]
here you can see trees snapped in half
by the force of the wings the group of
ladies form up to receive supplies
heading up the mountain pass to teal the
road becomes a bunch of rough
[Music]
Polliwog luck falls the tallest in the
Philippines and you can see the river is
swollen arrange very interesting
the typhoon came through here pretty
much made a mess of what trees were left
there's no leaves most of the standing
trees have been knocked down and
scattered finally we arrived at the
remote community of Holly watt Walker a
very picturesque name
army troops provide security and they
help unload the rice I understand there
are 500 households living in this little
town of Valley walk long they've had
some roof damage and pretty much all of
them are out of work now with the
destruction of the coconut trees by the
winds
[Music]
I know this girl doesn't look very happy
but trust me getting this Monster High
doll made her year these boys would bent
in Tory seem to have the right idea and
so after after dropping two supplies we
head back to Davao and after 14 hours we
arrived safely in our hotel
[Music]
is how to care
and okay
[Music]
with the sky
my life is fair jazz
[Music]